Problem 1.

VARMAX.csv contains data collected by VARMAX Realty on twenty houses. Column 2 shows the selling price of each house, and Column 3 shows the total area of the house, measured in (sq. feet). The fourth column is a rating of the quality of the neighborhood in which the house is located, rated on a scale of 1 through 5 with 1 being lowest ranking. Similarly, Column 5 contains rating of the general condition of the house, also rated as a number between 1 and 5 with 1 being the lowest rating.

VARMAX would like to use the data to develop a linear regression model to predict the price of houses as a function of the area of the house, the neighborhood rating, and the condition rating of the house.

(a) Construct and run a regression model to predict the price of a house based on three independent variables for the area, the neighborhood rating, and the condition rating of the house.

(b) Evaluate the regression output of your regression model. Do you recommend using this regression model?

(c) What is the regression equation produced by the linear regression model?

(d) What is the predicted price of a house whose area is 3000 sq. feet with a neighbor hood ranking of 5 and a general condition ranking of 4?

Problem 2.

The United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is trying to estimate the monthly amount of unpaid taxes that its auditing division in Dallas, TX is able to uncover. In the past, the IRS has estimated this figure based on the expected number of field-audit hours. In recent years, however, field-audit labor hours have become an erratic predictor of the amount of uncovered unpaid taxes.

The Dallas auditing division keeps records of the number of labor hours that are devoted to trying to uncover unpaid taxes, as well as the number of computer hours used to check tax returns to try to uncover unpaid taxes.  The dataset AUDIT.csv contains labor hours and the computer hours (in units of 100 hours), and unpaid taxes discovered by the audit division (in $ million), for the last ten months. The IRS has decided to test the ability of a linear regression model to predict the amount of uncovered unpaid taxes based on both field-audit labor hours as well as computer hours.

(a) Construct a linear regression model to predict uncovered unpaid taxes.

(b) Perform a significance test of the regression coefficients using the t-statistics in your regression model output. What do you find?

(c) Look at the scatter-plot of the regression residuals with each of the independent variables. Is there evidence of heteroscedasticity?

(d) Would you recommend IRS increase the number of computer hours devoted to auditing tax returns? Would you recommend that the IRS increase the number of field-audit hours? why or why not?